Just curious whether this kind of
process in larger Vue code bases kind of
results in the constants TypeScript
file getting kind of cannibalized or
incorporated into the types file.
Do you see frequently constant files or?
>> Yeah, okay, so
this is a great question,
because let's take a look at this.
And this segues perfectly into
the next thing I wanted to talk about.
So here we've noticed that we
have our constants types here,
and we also have our types here.
And as developers, we have been inundated
with the do not repeat yourself rule which
to me, it's often done overkill.
But obviously,
we can see here there's some duplication,
we have two sources of truth.
This is a bit of a problem.
So the thing about the constants being
subsumed into types, though, is that
the constants are still valid JavaScript
values that you could assign later on.
So for example,
one of the things we're about to do is,
if we take a look at our application and
if we go to new restaurant,
you'll notice we're actually not
rendering out the status right now.
There's no way for
users to pick which status it is.
And so when you do that, which we'll do in
a little bit, we'll want to import this
const, right, as an array that will loop
through and then render out our options.
But remember that the value here is not
the same as a type cuz this type can never
be consumed in a way that
traditional JavaScript would.
And so let's go ahead and
see how we would solve that
problem cuz this is a common one.
So let me start by, again,
let's start by showing the problem, and
then we'll go from here.
So what we're gonna try to do right now
is inside of the new restaurant page,
we're gonna go ahead and
flush this part out.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
go into newRestaurant and
we can see here that this hasn't
been moved over to TypeScript yet.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that,
let's say setup lang="ts".
And then after that we're gonna,
whoa, you know what?
I'm not gonna do that just yet
cuz I wanna prove something real quick.
Okay, I'll just do to lang="ts".
And then I'll import
defineComponent from Vue.
And so actually just to explain
what I'm thinking here.
The reason we're not gonna do the script
setup just yet is because I haven't taught
you all how to define emits and
props and that kinda stuff.
So rather than skip directly to that,
we're just gonna do something we're
familiar with,
which is the defineComponent, okay.
So here inside of, let's see,
[SOUND] where's our status?
Status is right here.
You'll notice that it's looking for
this restaurantStatusList.
It doesn't exist right now, and the reason
for that is we haven't imported it yet.
So if I import restaurantStatusList
from my constants,
I can actually ingest it here
inside of my reactive data.
And then once I do that,
you'll see that everything shows up, okay?
But we still have a small problem here and
the reason for
that is because we have
this duplication of data.
And so the question is,
is there a way for TypeScript to look at
a constant we defined here and
then generate the types from it?
And so how this works, I honestly don't
know why they designed it this way,
but it's fine, I'll show you how it works.
All right, the first thing you're gonna do
when you want, okay, think of it this way.
Would you kind of want, and
if we were to do this ourselves,
is would you kinda wanna be like loop
through restaurantStatusList constant,
and then unite them with a union operator,
right?
Like we were programmatically dramatic,
kind of what we were thinking.
So you might be thinking, there's a for
loop or something, not quite.
The way this works is first, let's go
ahead and import our constant, all right?
So we'll import restaurant,
looks like restaurant, okay,
doesn't like the imports, so I'll just
have to manually do it, constants.
Okay, so if I do restaurant,
why does it not like it,
status, it does not like it.
Import type unresolved.
Sure, okay, yeah, that's okay.
Sorry, this error is correct.
This is not gonna work, right,
because this is a JavaScript value,
this is not a type, right?
We have a keyword for that, for a reason.
So one one the things you can do or
what you're supposed to do or
the most popular convention is you
typecast it as a constant, and
this is my number one complaint,
cuz it is already a constant.
It's weird to me that you would
cast something as a constant, but
you'll notice it does something,
though, to the restaurantStatusList,
is that it makes it available to
TypeScript as this read only tuple.
And so for those that aren't
familiar with that programming term,
it's basically where you have an array
with fixed values in certain positions.
Although, I'm not saying it is a tuple but
it just kind of like that, where it's
saying these are arrays with these
specific values in these specific places.
And then I don't care for the syntax,
I'm just making this for the record.
You ask for
the type of the restaurantStatusList and
then not only that, you have to then
use this square bracket number,
because it is technically an array
of things you're reading.
But arrays are accessed via a number,
this number here is not arbitrary.
It is the type of value that's being
used to access the values inside of this
read only thing.
But once you do this,
though, you will notice
that type status is actually
generating as you would expect, right?
It has a want to try, and so
now we come in here and we're like, hey,
we wanna add delicious and we save it,
cool, status is automatically updated.